Title: PDC-Communication: Communication

KA Core:
5. One or more of the following properties and extensions
a. Topologies: Unicast, Multicast, Mailboxes, Switches; Routing via hardware and software
interconnection networks
b. Media concurrency properties: Ordering, consistency, idempotency, overlapping
communication with computation
c. Media performance: Latency, bandwidth (throughput) contention (congestion),
responsiveness (liveness), reliability (error and drop rates), protocol-based progress (acks,
timeouts, mediation)
d. Media security properties: integrity, privacy, authentication, authorization (See also: SEC-
Secure Coding)
e. Data formats: Marshaling, validation, encryption, compression
f. Channel policies: Endpoints, sessions, buffering, saturation response (waiting vs dropping),
rate control
g. Multiplexing and demultiplexing many relatively slow I/O devices or parties; completion-
based and scheduler-based techniques; async-await, select and polling APIs
h. Formalization and analysis of channel communication; for example, CSP
i. Applications of queuing theory to model and predict performance.
j. Memory models: sequential and release/acquire consistency
k. Memory management; including reclamation of shared data; reference counts and
alternatives
l. Bulk data placement and transfer; reducing message traffic and improving locality;
overlapping data transfer and computation; impact of data layout such as array-of-structs vs
struct-of-arrays
m. Emulating shared memory: distributed shared memory, Remote Direct Memory Access
(RDMA)
n. Data store consistency: Atomicity, linearizability, transactionality, coherence, causal
ordering, conflict resolution, eventual consistency, blockchains
o. Faults, partitioning, and partial failures; voting; protocols such as Paxos and Raft.
p. Design tradeoffs among consistency, availability, partition (fault) tolerance; impossibility of
meeting all at once
q. Security and trust: Byzantine failures, proof of work and alternatives
221