Title: AI-ML: Machine Learning

CS Core:
1. Definition and examples of a broad variety of machine learning tasks
a. Supervised learning
i. Classification
ii. Regression
b. Reinforcement learning
c. Unsupervised learning
i. Clustering
2. Fundamental ideas:
a. No free lunch theorem: no one learner can solve all problems; representational design decisions
have consequences.
b. Sources of error and undecidability in machine learning
3. A simple statistical-based supervised learning such as linear regression or decision trees
a. Focus on how they work without going into mathematical or optimization details; enough to
understand and use existing implementations correctly
4. The overfitting problem/controlling solution complexity (regularization, pruning – intuition only)
a. The bias (underfitting) – variance (overfitting) tradeoff
5. Working with Data
a. Data preprocessing
i. Importance and pitfalls of preprocessing choices
b. Handling missing values (imputing, flag-as-missing)
i. Implications of imputing vs flag-as-missing
c. Encoding categorical variables, encoding real-valued data
d. Normalization/standardization
e. Emphasis on real data, not textbook examples
6. Representations
a. Hypothesis spaces and complexity
b. Simple basis feature expansion, such as squaring univariate features
c. Learned feature representations
7. Machine learning evaluation
a. Separation of train, validation, and test sets
b. Performance metrics for classifiers
c. Estimation of test performance on held-out data
d. Tuning the parameters of a machine learning model with a validation set
e. Importance of understanding what a model is doing, where its pitfalls/shortcomings are, and the
implications of its decisions
8. Basic neural networks
a. Fundamentals of understanding how neural networks work and their training process, without
details of the calculations
b. Basic introduction to generative neural networks (e.g., large language models)
9. Ethics for Machine Learning (See also: SEP-Context)
a. Focus on real data, real scenarios, and case studies
b. Dataset/algorithmic/evaluation bias and unintended consequences
71